# Processing the data

Continuing with the example from the previous chapter, here is how we would train a sequence classifier on one batch in TensorFlow:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification

# Same as before
checkpoint = "bert-base-uncased"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
model = TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
sequences = [
    "I've been waiting for a HuggingFace course my whole life.",
    "This course is amazing!",
]
batch = dict(tokenizer(sequences, padding=True, truncation=True, return_tensors="tf"))

# This is new
model.compile(optimizer="adam", loss="sparse_categorical_crossentropy")
labels = tf.convert_to_tensor([1, 1])
model.train_on_batch(batch, labels)
```

Of course, just training the model on two sentences is not going to yield very good results. To get better results, you will need to prepare a bigger dataset.
In this section we will use as an example the MRPC (Microsoft Research Paraphrase Corpus) dataset, introduced in a paper by William B. Dolan and Chris Brockett. 
The dataset consists of 5,801 pairs of sentences, with a label indicating if they are paraphrases or not (i.e., if both sentences mean the same thing).

## Loading a dataset from the Hub
The Hub doesn’t just contain models; it also has multiple datasets in lots of different languages. 
The 🤗 Datasets library provides a very simple command to download and cache a dataset on the Hub. We can download the MRPC dataset like this:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset

raw_datasets = load_dataset("glue", "mrpc")
raw_datasets
```

```
DatasetDict({
    train: Dataset({
        features: ['sentence1', 'sentence2', 'label', 'idx'],
        num_rows: 3668
    })
    validation: Dataset({
        features: ['sentence1', 'sentence2', 'label', 'idx'],
        num_rows: 408
    })
    test: Dataset({
        features: ['sentence1', 'sentence2', 'label', 'idx'],
        num_rows: 1725
    })
})
```

As you can see, we get a **DatasetDict object** which contains the training set, the validation set, and the test set. 
Each of those contains several columns (sentence1, sentence2, label, and idx) and a variable number of rows, which are the number of elements in each set.

We can access each pair of sentences in our raw_datasets object by indexing, like with a dictionary:

```python
raw_train_dataset = raw_datasets["train"]
raw_train_dataset[0]
```
```
{'idx': 0,
 'label': 1,
 'sentence1': 'Amrozi accused his brother , whom he called " the witness " , of deliberately distorting his evidence .',
 'sentence2': 'Referring to him as only " the witness " , Amrozi accused his brother of deliberately distorting his evidence .'}
```
We can see the labels are already integers, so we won’t have to do any preprocessing there. To know which integer corresponds to which label, we can inspect the features of our raw_train_dataset. 
This will tell us the type of each column:
```python
raw_train_dataset.features
```
```
{'sentence1': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
 'sentence2': Value(dtype='string', id=None),
 'label': ClassLabel(num_classes=2, names=['not_equivalent', 'equivalent'], names_file=None, id=None),
 'idx': Value(dtype='int32', id=None)}
```
Behind the scenes, label is of type **ClassLabel**, and the mapping of integers to label name is stored in the names folder. 
0 corresponds to not_equivalent, and 1 corresponds to equivalent.

To preprocess the dataset, we need to convert the text to numbers the model can make sense of. As you saw in the previous chapter, this is done with a tokenizer. 
We can feed the tokenizer one sentence or a list of sentences, so we can directly tokenize all the first sentences and all the second sentences of each pair like this:

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer

checkpoint = "bert-base-uncased"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
tokenized_sentences_1 = tokenizer(raw_datasets["train"]["sentence1"])
tokenized_sentences_2 = tokenizer(raw_datasets["train"]["sentence2"])
```
However, we can’t just pass two sequences to the model and get a prediction of whether the two sentences are paraphrases or not. We need to handle the two sequences as a pair, and apply the appropriate preprocessing. 
Fortunately, the tokenizer can also take a pair of sequences and prepare it the way our BERT model expects:

```python
inputs = tokenizer("This is the first sentence.", "This is the second one.")
inputs
```
```
{ 
  'input_ids': [101, 2023, 2003, 1996, 2034, 6251, 1012, 102, 2023, 2003, 1996, 2117, 2028, 1012, 102],
  'token_type_ids': [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1],
  'attention_mask': [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
}
```
**token_type_ids** is what tells the model which part of the input is the first sentence and which is the second sentence.

If we decode the IDs inside input_ids back to words:


```python
tokenizer.convert_ids_to_tokens(inputs["input_ids"])
```
```
['[CLS]', 'this', 'is', 'the', 'first', 'sentence', '.', '[SEP]', 'this', 'is', 'the', 'second', 'one', '.', '[SEP]']
```
So we see the model expects the inputs to be of the form [CLS] sentence1 [SEP] sentence2 [SEP] when there are two sentences. Aligning this with the token_type_ids gives us:
```
['[CLS]', 'this', 'is', 'the', 'first', 'sentence', '.', '[SEP]', 'this', 'is', 'the', 'second', 'one', '.', '[SEP]']
[      0,      0,    0,     0,       0,          0,   0,       0,      1,    1,     1,        1,     1,   1,       1]
```

As you can see, the parts of the input corresponding to [CLS] sentence1 [SEP] all have a token type ID of 0, while the other parts, corresponding to sentence2 [SEP], all have a token type ID of 1.

Note that if you select a different checkpoint, you won’t necessarily have the **token_type_ids** in your tokenized inputs (for instance, they’re not returned if you use a DistilBERT model). 
They are only returned when the model will know what to do with them, because it has seen them during its pretraining.

Here, BERT is pretrained with token type IDs, and on top of the masked language modeling objective we talked about in Chapter 1, it has an additional objective called next sentence prediction.
The goal with this task is to model the relationship between pairs of sentences.

With next sentence prediction, the model is provided pairs of sentences (with randomly masked tokens) and asked to predict whether the second sentence follows the first. To make the task non-trivial, half of the time the sentences follow each other in the original document they were extracted from, and the other half of the time the two sentences come from two different documents.

In general, you don’t need to worry about whether or not there are token_type_ids in your tokenized inputs: as long as you use the same checkpoint for the tokenizer and the model, everything will be fine as the tokenizer knows what to provide to its model.

Now that we have seen how our tokenizer can deal with one pair of sentences, we can use it to tokenize our whole dataset: like in the previous chapter, we can feed the tokenizer a list of pairs of sentences by giving it the list of first sentences, then the list of second sentences. This is also compatible with the padding and truncation options we saw in Chapter 2. So, one way to preprocess the training dataset is:

```python
tokenized_dataset = tokenizer(
    raw_datasets["train"]["sentence1"],
    raw_datasets["train"]["sentence2"],
    padding=True,
    truncation=True,
)
```
This works well, but it has the disadvantage of returning a dictionary (with our keys, input_ids, attention_mask, and token_type_ids, and values that are lists of lists). It will also only work if you have enough RAM to store your whole dataset during the tokenization
To keep the data as a dataset, we will use the Dataset.map() method. This also allows us some extra flexibility, if we need more preprocessing done than just tokenization. The map() method works by applying a function on each element of the dataset, so let’s define a function that tokenizes our inputs:

```python
def tokenize_function(example):
    return tokenizer(example["sentence1"], example["sentence2"], truncation=True)
```

This function takes a dictionary (like the items of our dataset) and returns a new dictionary with the keys input_ids, attention_mask, and token_type_ids. Note that it also works if the example dictionary contains several samples (each key as a list of sentences) since the tokenizer works on lists of pairs of sentences, as seen before.

This will allow us to use the option batched=True in our call to map(), which will greatly speed up the tokenization. The tokenizer is backed by a tokenizer written in Rust from the 🤗 Tokenizers library. This tokenizer can be very fast, but only if we give it lots of inputs at once.

Note that we’ve left the padding argument out in our tokenization function for now. This is because padding all the samples to the maximum length is not efficient: it’s better to pad the samples when we’re building a batch, as then we only need to pad to the maximum length in that batch, and not the maximum length in the entire dataset. This can save a lot of time and processing power when the inputs have very variable lengths!

Here is how we apply the tokenization function on all our datasets at once. We’re using batched=True in our call to map so the function is applied to multiple elements of our dataset at once, and not on each element separately. This allows for faster preprocessing.

```python
tokenized_datasets = raw_datasets.map(tokenize_function, batched=True)
tokenized_datasets
```

The way the 🤗 Datasets library applies this processing is by adding new fields to the datasets, one for each key in the dictionary returned by the preprocessing function:

```python
DatasetDict({
    train: Dataset({
        features: ['attention_mask', 'idx', 'input_ids', 'label', 'sentence1', 'sentence2', 'token_type_ids'],
        num_rows: 3668
    })
    validation: Dataset({
        features: ['attention_mask', 'idx', 'input_ids', 'label', 'sentence1', 'sentence2', 'token_type_ids'],
        num_rows: 408
    })
    test: Dataset({
        features: ['attention_mask', 'idx', 'input_ids', 'label', 'sentence1', 'sentence2', 'token_type_ids'],
        num_rows: 1725
    })
})
```

You can even use multiprocessing when applying your preprocessing function with map() by passing along a num_proc argument. We didn’t do this here because the 🤗 Tokenizers library already uses multiple threads to tokenize our samples faster, but if you are not using a fast tokenizer backed by this library, this could speed up your preprocessing.

Our tokenize_function returns a dictionary with the keys input_ids, attention_mask, and token_type_ids, so those three fields are added to all splits of our dataset. Note that we could also have changed existing fields if our preprocessing function returned a new value for an existing key in the dataset to which we applied map().

The last thing we will need to do is pad all the examples to the length of the longest element when we batch elements together — a technique we refer to as **dynamic padding.**





