# Handling multiple sequences
In the previous section, we explored the simplest of use cases: **doing inference on a single sequence of a small length**. However, some questions emerge already:

- How do we handle multiple sequences? Sequences of different lengths?
- Are vocabulary indices the only inputs that allow a model to work well?
- Is there such a thing as too long a sequence?
  
Let’s see what kinds of problems these questions pose, and how we can solve them using the **🤗 Transformers API**.


## Models expect a batch of inputs

In the previous exercise you saw how sequences get translated into **lists of numbers.** Let’s convert this list of numbers to a tensor and send it to the model:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification

checkpoint = "distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
model = TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

sequence = "I've been waiting for a HuggingFace course my whole life."

tokens = tokenizer.tokenize(sequence)
ids = tokenizer.convert_tokens_to_ids(tokens)
input_ids = tf.constant(ids)

# This line will fail.
model(input_ids)
```

```
InvalidArgumentError: Input to reshape is a tensor with 14 values, but the requested shape has 196 [Op:Reshape]
```

Oh no! Why did this fail? “We followed the steps from the pipeline in section 2.

The problem is that we sent a single sequence to the model, whereas **🤗 Transformers models expect multiple sentences by default.** 
Here we tried to do everything the tokenizer did behind the scenes when we applied it to a sequence. 
But if you look closely, you’ll see that the tokenizer didn’t just convert the list of input IDs into a tensor, **it added a dimension on top of it:**

```python
tokenized_inputs = tokenizer(sequence, return_tensors="tf")
print(tokenized_inputs["input_ids"])
```

```
<tf.Tensor: shape=(1, 16), dtype=int32, numpy=
array([[  101,  1045,  1005,  2310,  2042,  3403,  2005,  1037, 17662,
        12172,  2607,  2026,  2878,  2166,  1012,   102]], dtype=int32)>
```

Let’s try again and add a new dimension:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification

checkpoint = "distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
model = TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

sequence = "I've been waiting for a HuggingFace course my whole life."

tokens = tokenizer.tokenize(sequence)
ids = tokenizer.convert_tokens_to_ids(tokens)

input_ids = tf.constant([ids])
print("Input IDs:", input_ids)

output = model(input_ids)
print("Logits:", output.logits)
```
We print the input IDs as well as the resulting logits — here’s the output:

```python
Input IDs: tf.Tensor(
[[ 1045  1005  2310  2042  3403  2005  1037 17662 12172  2607  2026  2878
   2166  1012]], shape=(1, 14), dtype=int32)
Logits: tf.Tensor([[-2.7276208  2.8789377]], shape=(1, 2), dtype=float32)
```

**Batching** is the act of sending multiple sentences through the model, all at once. If you only have one sentence, you can just build a batch with a single sequence:

```python
batched_ids = [ids, ids]
```
This is a batch of two identical sequences!


**Batching allows the model to work when you feed it multiple sentences.** Using multiple sequences is just as simple as building a batch with a single sequence. There’s a second issue, though. 


## Padding the inputs

The following list of lists cannot be converted to a tensor:
```python
batched_ids = [
    [200, 200, 200],
    [200, 200]
]
```
In order to work around this, we’ll use padding to make our tensors have a rectangular shape. **Padding makes sure all our sentences have the same length by adding a special word called the padding token to the sentences with fewer values.**

The padding token ID can be found in tokenizer.pad_token_id. Let’s use it and send our two sentences through the model individually and batched together:

```python
model = TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

sequence1_ids = [[200, 200, 200]]
sequence2_ids = [[200, 200]]
batched_ids = [
    [200, 200, 200],
    [200, 200, tokenizer.pad_token_id],
]

print(model(tf.constant(sequence1_ids)).logits)
print(model(tf.constant(sequence2_ids)).logits)
print(model(tf.constant(batched_ids)).logits)
```

```
tf.Tensor([[ 1.5693678 -1.3894581]], shape=(1, 2), dtype=float32)
tf.Tensor([[ 0.5803005  -0.41252428]], shape=(1, 2), dtype=float32)
tf.Tensor(
[[ 1.5693681 -1.3894582]
 [ 1.3373486 -1.2163193]], shape=(2, 2), dtype=float32)
```
There’s something wrong with the logits in our batched predictions: the second row should be the same as the logits for the second sentence, but we’ve got completely different values!

This is because the key feature of Transformer models is attention layers that contextualize each token. These will take into account the padding tokens since they attend to all of the tokens of a sequence. To get the same result when passing individual sentences of different lengths through the model or when passing a batch with the same sentences and padding applied, we need to tell those attention layers to ignore the padding tokens. This is done by using an attention mask.


## Attention masks

**Attention masks** are tensors with the exact same shape as the input IDs tensor, **filled with 0s and 1s**: 1s indicate the corresponding tokens should be attended to, and 0s indicate the corresponding tokens should not be attended to (i.e., they should be ignored by the attention layers of the model).

Let’s complete the previous example with an attention mask:

```python
batched_ids = [
    [200, 200, 200],
    [200, 200, tokenizer.pad_token_id],
]

attention_mask = [
    [1, 1, 1],
    [1, 1, 0],
]

outputs = model(tf.constant(batched_ids), attention_mask=tf.constant(attention_mask))
print(outputs.logits)
```

```
tf.Tensor(
[[ 1.5693681  -1.3894582 ]
 [ 0.5803021  -0.41252586]], shape=(2, 2), dtype=float32)
```
Now we get the same logits for the second sentence in the batch.

Notice how the last value of the second sequence is a padding ID, which is a 0 value in the attention mask.

## Longer sequences

With Transformer models, **there is a limit to the lengths of the sequences** we can pass the models. Most models handle sequences of up to **512 or 1024 tokens**, and will crash when asked to process longer sequences. There are two solutions to this problem:
- Use a model with a longer supported sequence length.
- Truncate your sequences.

Models have different supported sequence lengths, and some specialize in handling very long sequences. Longformer is one example, and another is LED. If you’re working on a task that requires very long sequences, we recommend you take a look at those models.

Otherwise, we recommend you truncate your sequences by specifying the `max_sequence_length` parameter:

```python
sequence = sequence[:max_sequence_length]
```
